# CS-300

For this project, I was tasked with creating a program that efficiently stored, sorted, and displayed information about a college's course list. I first started by learning about different sorting and data storage methods, and worked to understand the strengths and weaknesses of each one. Once I had decided on using a binary search tree to store and sort the course list, I first practiced using this method with a list of bids. The list size was approximately 12,000, and the method worked very efficiently. I also analyzed the runtime efficiency of the system to ensure the method was efficient for every scenario, just in case I had accidentally created a best case scenario for one method and a worst case scenario for another. Once I confirmed my choice of sorting and storing method, I used the code for the bids program and slightly modified it to fit the data types of the project.

At the start of this course, I had a very limited understanding of pointers, nodes, and structures. I did a lot of testing with course assignments and even gave myself a few extra assignments to practice specific skills I needed to improve on. I also didn't hesitate to reach out to my instructor when I had an idea, but was unsure if it met the assignment's guidelines. However, I feel that the most useful tool I had at my disposal was time management. By studying each assignment's requirements, and then utilizing the small segments of time I had throughout the week to build a plan, I was very confident in the work I was able to accomplish when I had time to sit down and focus on it.

This course has opened my understanding to data structures and pointers, which will allow me to use these in the future for more efficient design. Sorting and searching for data is a common task that almost every system has to implement to some extent, so learning different methods for doing this and how to measure their efficiency and effectiveness provides me with a useful set of skills I am sure I will utilize at many different opportunities in the future.

I was also able to benefit heavily from the adaptability of my code from early assignments when it came time to write my final project. By taking the time and doing the work early in the course completely and adaptably, the final project was a lot less tedious coding and a lot more editting old segments of code to make them fit the current assignment. The logic had already been implemented, I only had to change small details such as variable names and class function calls.
